# 继承:

子类拥有父类非private的方法和属性

# Architectural design process

identify key sub-systems and configuration according to the requirements, identify the model of control for  sub-systems, identify the relationships and framework of this system.

decompose sub-systems into modules.

# modules include

==objects, dataflow, components, services,==

we learn object-oriented

20220109-08 : 37
$$
2^{nd}
$$
This level's sub-systems sometimes are referred to as components.

子系统再往下分解有时被称作组件

unified modeling language

UML is standard notation for modeling object-oriented software systems.

# The key features of object-orientation,面向对象的特点

1. objects
2. classes
3. interfaces
4. ==relationships==
5. polymorphism-多态

# Object

is an entity, it can be physical, conceptual, or software

Objects have ==state, behavior, identity==

each object has its own identity, 

# Class

classes are used for describing some objects that are in common,

==attributes, behavior, links, semantics==

强调相关的特性,压缩其他的属性

emphasis on relevant characteristics, suppress other characteristics.

A class may have 0 or more attributes.

# Dependence

一般用于,某个类的实例在另一个类的方法里作为参数

箭头指向被依赖的类

# Inheritance

From general classes to some specific classes, include additional functions.

subclasses inherit all attributes and operations of their parents, also able to define additional attributes.

# Association

An object can ==associate with more than one object.==

Multiplicity identifies more than one class are relate to a single class,

# Aggregation-聚合

Aggregation is a special form of association that means a "whole/part" relationship.

# Composition-组合

# Interface

An interface is a set of operation signatures.

A class may implement several interfaces

An interface cannot be instantiated.

# UML Diagrams

1. static
2. dynamic
3. physical

static diagrams describe logical structure of classes, objects and data structures.

dynamic diagrams describe the state change when executing, by execution flow, or the way entities change state.

Physical diagrams show the unchanging physical structure, such as source files, libraries, binary files, data files and their relationships.

