# 1 Shared resources for multiple processes?

1. memory
2. hardware devices including CPU

# 2 what's the solution of the dead lock?

重新启动系统(代价很大)

1. selectively abort certain process according to some algorithm-撤销进程
2. Roll back to earlier state-进程回退策略

# 死锁,活锁的区别

死锁处于互相等待状态,如无外力,则一直处于死锁

活锁则是在不断尝试,而且活锁有可能自行解开

# 3 What does process context include?

1. contents of CPU registers,
2. Memory map
3. Open files
4. on-going communication
5. Configured timers or clarms
6. Accounting info. / Resource usage

# 4 In paging, what is the benefit of paging?

1. simplifies allocation
2. A process only needs entries for the memory it uses
3. A virtual page can be mapped to ANY physical frame

# 5 Which problem may occur in priority-based scheduler?

A process will starve where there is always running process with higher priority.

# 6 Recover the following dead lock

Lock1.acuire()

Lock2.acquire()

Lock1.release()

Lock2.release()

改为Lock2.release()

然后再Lock1.relase()

或者直接改成Lock1.acquire()

Lock1.release()

# 7 Describe the task of device driver?

1. I/O scheduling and protection
2. Buffering, Spooling and Caching
3. Error Handling

# 8 What are the differences between ==process and thread==?

Process is allocated independent address space.

Different processed often work on different tasks.

Heavier-weight context switch, thick-grained concurrency

Threads share a common address space

cooperate on common task, lighter-weighter switch; support fine-grained concurrency

```java
public class PizzaStore{
    private int pizaNumber = 0;
    public synchronized void cook(){
        while(pizaNumber == 10) wait();
        if(pizaNumber++ == 0)
            notifyAll();
    }
    public synchronized void sell(){
        while(pizaNumber == 0) wait();
        if(pizaNumber-- == 10)
            notifyAll();
    }
}
```

```java
int interested[2]=0;
int processNumber=2;
public void enterCS(int process){
    int other = 1-process;
    interested[process] = true;
    while(interested[other]==true);
}
public void leaveCS(int process){
    interested[process]=0;
}
```

